 
 
 
                          
 
 
MYZAKAPAY MERCHANT TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
WHEREAS Mascom is desirous of appointing 
_____________________________________
_____________________________________ 
as its Merchant to accept payments through 
MyZaka Mobile Money Merchant Payment 
service (“MyZakaPay”) as well as to provide 
related mobile money transfer services offered 
by Mascom Wireless Botswana 
(“Mascom”) as part of its mobile phone 
services and products in Botswana on a non-
exclusive basis. 
AND WHEREAS the Merchant is agreeable to 
the provision of such merchant services to 
Mascom. 
NOW THEREFORE IN CONSIDERATION OF THE 
AFOREGOING THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED AS 
FOLLOWS: 
1. DEFINITIONS 
1.1 Cash-Out means the process of redeeming 
e-value for cash from the Agent. 
1.2 Customer means every person in whose 
name a MyZaka account is registered in 
connection with the use of MyZaka services 
and who also purchases goods and/or services 
from the Merchant. 
1.3 E-value or e-money means the electronic 
money in the Mobile Money Transfer System 
which will equate to the deposits in the 
Mascom MyZaka Trust Account at Absa Bank. 
1.4 Wallet means an E- value repository. 
1.5 MyZaka Agent means an entity registered 
by Mascom to fulfil functions of registering 
customers and effecting payments, deposits 
and withdrawals. 
1.6 MyZaka Transfer and Payment system 
means the MyZaka mobile money system on 
which the Mobile Money Transactions are 
done. 
1.7 Merchant means an entity that accepts 
E-value as a payment mode for goods and/or 
services and for bulk disbursement of cash as 
e-value to beneficiaries. 
1.8 Merchant Code refers to a 6-digit number  
assigned to a business or organization by 
Mascom upon registration as a Merchant 
1.9 SMS means short message services. 
1.10 
USSD 
means 
the 
Unstructured 
Supplementary Service Data menu on your 
cellphone that lists all the services. 
 
 
2. SCOPE OF MERCHANT AGREEMENT 
Mascom hereby appoints and retains the 
Merchant, on a non-exclusive basis, to 
perform functions, services and such other 
acts as the Merchant is specifically required to 
do pursuant to the terms of this agreement. 
The Merchant agrees to perform its duties 
under the supervision of Mascom within 
Botswana commencing 
__________________20_____, 
subject to renewal, extension, or termination 
by the Parties. 
 
3. MERCHANT’S RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS 
3.1 The Merchant shall forthwith upon 
execution of this Agreement, if not already 
done prior to such execution, register with 
Mascom as a Customer and have a Mascom 
line to facilitate registration as a Mascom 
mobile money Merchant (“MyZakaPay 
Merchant”). 
3.2 The Merchant’s outlets shall be staffed 
with appropriately qualified and trained staff  
members to handle MyZakaPay payments. 
Should Mascom organize training for Outlet 
staff, the Merchant will ensure that Outlet 
staff are in attendance. The Merchant shall 
not do or omit to do anything which could 
reasonably be regarded as inconsistent with 
this obligation. 
3.3 The merchant shall accept MyZakaPay 
payments from customers for goods and 
services bought. 
The procedure for accepting MyZakaPay 
payments shall be as follows: 
3.3.1 The merchant shall always display his 
merchant code where it is clearly visible to 
customers. 
3.3.2 The customer will initiate a payment 
transaction for goods and/or services through 
USSD (cell phone) menu short code *167# 
3.3.3 The Merchant shall ensure that the 
customer quotes the Merchant Code in all 
payments made through MyZakaPay. 
3.3.4 The Merchant shall not deduct any 
charges for the payment transactions made 
by the Customer. In this regard the amount 
transferred by the Customer shall be 
equivalent to the price(s) of goods and/or 
services displayed on the till. 
3.3.5 The Merchant shall release the goods 
and or/services to the customer upon 
successful completion of the transaction and 
the money reflecting in the Merchant’s wallet. 
In this regard the Merchant shall receive an 
SMS notification showing inter alia the 
amount paid by the Customer, their name and 
customer number. A receipt shall be 
generated where systems are integrated. 
Merchant can also go into the merchant 
portal to check the last transactions to 
validate in case SMS is not delivered. 
3.3.6 At any time the merchant may choose to 
liquidate his/her wallet at any MyZaka 
agent’s outlet or by issuing a bank transfer 
instruction for larger amounts in accordance 
with any limits as advised by the regulator 
from time to time. 
 
3.4 The Merchant shall exercise full control 
over and take full responsibility to ensure that 
all payment transactions are done in line with 
the policies of Mascom and as per the 
procedures provided by Mascom as well as 
for its employees, their acts and omissions 
when carrying out MyZaka payment 
transactions. 
 
3.5 The Merchant shall ensure that the staff 
members responsible for handling MyZaka 
transactions undergo an annual Anti Money 
Laundering and counter terrorism financing 
and proliferation training on an annual basis 
and shall share proof of such training with 
Mascom within the year in question. 
 
3.6 Mascom has zero tolerance for money 
laundering  and other forms of financial 
crime. Where the Merchant gets involved in 
or is found guilty of money laundering, 
terrorist financing or any unlawful activities 
not governed by this agreement; Mascom will 
not, in any way be party or held liable for such 
illegal activities and reserves the right to 
report this to the relevant authorities in line 
with the requirements of the regulations and  
terminate its relationship with the Merchant 
forthwith 
 
3.7 The Merchant shall be responsible for the 
maintenance of accurate, up to date and 
verified information which Mascom shall 
deem true and correct and wholly rely on 
when making payments.  
 
3.8 Any change or variation of Merchant 
information or management shall be 
communicated to Mascom in writing within 
30 days of such change occurring.  
 
3.9 The Merchant may redeem electronic 
money on behalf of the licensee, but shall not 
issue electronic money on its own behalf. 
 
3.10 The Merchant acknowledges that the 
contract for their services shall not be 
exclusive.  
 
3.11 The Merchant shall establish the identity 
of each customer  as required under Section 5 
of the FIA Regulations, and where the 
Merchant cannot establish the identity of a 
customer due to impossibility of reasonable 
impracticability, a specified party shall as far 
as is reasonably possible, take steps to 
ascertain and verify such identity and without 
delay give written notice to the Agency of 
such impossibility or impracticability 
indicating any alternative measures used to 
identify or verify the identity. 
 
4. OBLIGATIONS OF MASCOM 
Mascom shall: 
4.1 Ensure that the Mobile Money Transfer 
and Payment System operates effectively in 
accordance with the provisions of the MyZaka 
Procedures Manual.  
4.2 Ensure that adequate marketing  
material is available for use by the Merchants. 
4.3 Have a fully operational Call Centre 
manned by qualified employees and/or 
automated systems to assist in the resolution 

 
 
 
                          
 
of problems related to the MyZakaPay 
Services. 
4.4 Mascom excludes warranties of any kind 
and shall not be liable for any costs, loss, 
liability or damage whether direct or indirect, 
special or consequential whatsoever and 
howsoever arising whether from any 
suspension or termination of this Agreement 
or otherwise. 
4.5 Mascom will train outlet staff so that they 
are proficient with MyZakaPay as well as 
aligned with the relevant Mascom policies 
and AML/CFT requirements before they start 
offering the MyZakaPay services to the 
market. 
Mascom will meet all expenses related to the 
training venue and training material, while 
the Merchant meets all travel and 
accommodation expenses incurred by their 
officers when they attend training. 
 
5. CHARGES 
5.1 Mascom will prescribe a charge for the 
Merchant for the liquidation of e-money and 
the transaction charges are as follows: 
5.1.1 Cashing out through a MyZaka Agent 
will attract the prevailing withdrawal charges 
with a maximum cap of BWP175. The charges 
may change from time to time at the 
discretion of Mascom. 
5.1.2 A bank transfer will attract the 
prevailing bank charges for bank transfers. 
5.1.3. Merchant irrevocably and 
unconditionally agrees and confirms that in 
consideration of Mascom facilitating payment 
services under the MyZakaPay Service, 
Mascom shall be entitled to impose a 
collection fee of _____% per payment. 
 
6. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR 
6.1 The Parties acknowledge that, save for the 
duties and powers of the Merchant as stated 
in clause 3, hereof nothing in this Agreement 
shall be construed to create a relationship of 
employment or partnership whatsoever 
between the Parties, whether for tax or any 
other purpose. 
6.2 Subject to clause 3 hereof neither Party 
shall have the right to bind the other to any 
Agreement with a third Party or to incur any 
obligation or liability on behalf of the other 
Party. 
 
7. SECURITY MANAGEMENT 
7.1 In the event of loss of the Merchant’s SIM 
card, the Merchant is required to inform 
Mascom immediately so that the SIM card is 
blocked. 
The Merchant can contact the Mascom Call 
Centre or send an e-mail to 
mobilemoney@mascom.bw  Reporting 
immediately will prevent unauthorized use. 
The Merchant will be liable for any losses and 
costs incurred before the disconnection of the 
SIM card is made by Mascom. 
7.2 The Merchant will be liable for any losses 
and costs incurred before they notify Mascom 
of the lost/stolen SIM card. The Merchant is 
responsible for securing their MyZakaPay 
wallet and the cell phone used for mobile 
money transaction with an access pin. 
Mascom will not be liable for any loss of 
valuables from the Merchant’s premises.  
 
8. CONFIDENTIALITY 
8.1 The Merchant shall treat as confidential all 
information 
relating 
to 
Customers, 
Transactions and Mascom. 
8.2 Each Party agrees to keep all information 
confidential and agrees that it shall not 
without the prior written consent of the 
Merchant, Customer, or Mascom, divulge 
information relating to the Merchant, 
Customer, or Mascom, unless required to do 
so by law enforcement agents upon which the 
affected Party should be consulted. 
 
The Parties agree to abide by and conduct their 
business in accordance with the relevant data 
protection and privacy laws in Botswana. 
 
9. BREACH 
9.1 Mascom shall have the right to terminate 
the Merchant Agreement in the event that 
the Merchant: 
9.2 Commits any act of fraud or theft against 
customers or Mascom involving the use of the 
Mascom mobile money facility; and/or 
9.3 Commits an act that brings Mascom into 
disrepute; and/or 
9.4 Fails to perform any of its obligations in 
terms of this Agreement. 
 
10. TERMINATION 
10.1 If the Merchant is in breach of the 
provisions per clause 9 hereof, Mascom may 
terminate this Agreement immediately and 
thereafter inform the Merchant in writing of 
reasons thereof. 
10.2 Mascom may also terminate the 
Merchant Agreement for whatever reason by 
giving 30 calendar days’ notice to the 
Merchant but in the event of a regulatory 
breach, Mascom may terminate the 
Agreement with immediate effect. 
 
11. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND 
INDEMNITY 
11.1 Mascom will not be liable for any costs, 
loss, or damage whether direct, special or 
consequential, howsoever, and when so ever 
arising from any suspension or termination of 
this Agreement. 
11.2 The Merchant shall indemnify Mascom, 
from and against any and all costs incurred by 
the Merchant of whatever nature and any 
loss, damage or liability, whether criminal or 
civil, suffered by Mascom resulting from a 
breach of this Agreement or any laws and 
regulations governing the provision of Mobile 
Money Transfer Services by the Merchant 
including but not limited to breaches caused 
by any act, neglect or default of the Merchant 
and/or its employees, or any subscriber or 
third party claim in respect of any matter 
arising from the Merchant’s or its employees’ 
conduct. 
11.3 No warranties or representations are 
made with regard to potential revenues that 
may be earned by the Merchant from the 
provision of the Mobile Money Transfer 
services and no reliance should be placed on 
any statements or projections provided, 
whether verbally or in writing in this respect. 
 
11.4 Mascom shall not be liable for any 
transactions carried out on the face of 
inaccurate or unverified information or 
documentation as at the date of transaction. 
 
12. DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
12.1 In the event of any dispute, parties shall 
use their best efforts to resolve any dispute 
arising out of or in connection to these Terms 
and Conditions through good faith 
negotiations within seven days of dispute 
arising. 
12.2 If the dispute is not resolved within this 
period, it shall be referred to arbitration in 
Gaborone in accordance with the Arbitration 
Act, as amended.  
12.3 The arbitration shall be conducted by a 
single arbitrator appointed by the Law Society 
of Botswana shall the appointment by way of 
agreement between the parties fail. 
12.4 The decision of the arbitrator shall be 
final and binding on both parties.  
12.5 Nothing in this clause shall prevent 
either party from seeking interim or urgent 
relief from a court of competent jurisdiction.  
12.6 This clause is severable from the rest of 
the Agreement and shall remain in force 
notwithstanding the termination, cancellation 
or invalidity of the Agreement or any part 
thereof. 
 
13 MUTUAL CO-OPERATION 
The Parties undertake to act in good faith 
with respect to each other’s rights under this 
Agreement and to adopt all reasonable 
measures to ensure the realization of the 
objectives of this Agreement. 
 
14. APPLICABLE LAW 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws 
of Botswana. In the event of a dispute, the 
Parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of 
the Courts of Botswana.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
